[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
dan walker and louise minchin
our headlines for you this morning harry
and megan's explosive
interview with oprah the duchess of
sussex says she experienced suicidal
thoughts
she also revealed that when she was
pregnant questions about the color of
archie's skin were asked within the
royal household
he won't be given security he's not
going to be given a title
and also concerns and conversations
about how dark his skin might be when
he's born
shocking powerful and deeply personal
megan and harry reveal their struggles
and sadness with royal life
also on breakfast this morning it's back
to school for millions of children in
england
10 years of hurt is over for rangers
they win the scottish premiership with
hundreds of fans celebrating outside
eyebrocks despite covert safety warnings
good morning today we've got some rain
across the northern half of the country
which will ease through the course of
the day
drier and brighter in the south but from
midweek it looks like the weather is
going to turn
wild i'll have more details later in the
programme
good morning it's monday it's the 8th of
march and the top story for you this
morning is that the duke and duchess of
sussex have accused the royal family of
failing to protect them
even when megan was suffering from
suicidal thoughts and harry was what
he called a dark place in an interview
broadcast on u.s television the couple
revealed
intimate details of their rift including
a claim that one member of the royal
household had expressed concern to harry
about how dark
his children would be our royal
correspondent danielle
ralph has this report finishing a trip
the duchess of sussex
didn't hold back she described a royal
life of loneliness and
isolation that left her in the darkest
of places
so were you thinking of harming yourself
were you having suicidal thoughts
yes this was very very clear
wow very clear and very scary and you
know i didn't know who to even
turn to in that these are the thoughts
that i'm having in the middle of the
night that are very clear
and i'm scared because this is very real
this isn't some abstract idea this is
methodical and this is not who i am
megan described feeling unsupported by
what she called the institution
she talked about this charity event in
january 2019.
she said just before leaving she told
her husband that she'd thought about
taking her own life
she describes how the glamour on the
outside hid the pain
on the inside
wait listen did you hear that the
interview was personal
revealing and at times shocking she told
oprah winfrey that her son
archie's mixed race heritage was an
issue
that when pregnant someone within the
palace questioned
how her child would look in those months
when i was pregnant
all around this same time
so we have in tandem the conversation of
he won't be
given security he's not going to be
given a title
and also concerns and conversations
about how dark his skin might be when
he's born
what and you're not going to tell me who
had the conversation
i think that would be very damaging to
them
the interview highlighted strained
relations within the royal family
megan said media reports claiming she'd
made her sister-in-law the duchess of
cambridge
cry were false in fact it was the other
way round she said
and kate had apologized
when harry joined the conversation with
oprah he described how he felt both his
brother
and father were trapped within the royal
family
of william he said their relationship
now needed space
and he hoped it would heal and he
revealed a rift
with his father there's a lot to work
through there
you know i i feel really let down
because he's been
through something similar he knows
what pain feels like and this is and
archie's his grandson
um but at the same time
you know of course i will i will always
i will always love him
but there's a lot of hurt that's
happened
there were lighter moments too the new
baby is a girl due in the summer
and life in california has brought the
couple peace
this is of course one side of the story
but the interview is deeply critical of
the royal family and its staff
it was a portrait of an institution
unable
or unwilling to help those struggling
within it
daniela ralph bbc news
well daniela is outside buckingham
palace for us this morning uh good to
talk to you
give us a bit of context i suppose first
thing daniella this morning just how
extraordinary is this interview
i think it's pretty extraordinary to be
honest and there is just so much to
unpick in it isn't there we had
those trailers last week week those
little teasers of what might be coming
so i think we you know we were expecting
something pretty dramatic but i think
the interview went beyond that perhaps
particularly
around megan discussing very personally
how
she felt mentally during her time within
the royal family here in the uk
saying that at times she considered
taking her own life
things became really desperate for her
she described going to try and get help
from officials within the royal
household
but they basically told her you know we
just have to be put up with it
everyone's been through it that's just
the life we have here and that she
wasn't offered the help that she wanted
she just couldn't cope any longer and
that was the point that basically her
and harry broke and felt they had to
leave the uk
so that kind of detail and that kind of
insight
into what was going on behind the palace
walls was
you know shocking heartbreaking at times
and really insightful in terms of what
was going on
and you mentioned in your piece there
that it was only obviously one side of
the story we've heard um
in that interview how do we expect the
palace if at all to respond
well i think there is a chance that they
will say something but perhaps not just
yet they're clearly
going to have to digest what they've
heard overnight
some of the staff within the palace will
of course stayed up to have watched the
interview
other members of the royal family will
be perhaps be waiting until this morning
to be briefed and to watch elements of
the interview and they will then
all have to consider whether they want
to say anything but the accusations
directed at them
are very clear particularly around what
support
was given to megan and harry when they
began to feel isolated
when they began to struggle why was
nobody there to help them
daniella ralph thank you very much for
speaking to us this morning we'll be uh
picking up you again later in the
program thank you
well this uh interview went out
overnight i think it started at one
one a.m hour time um of course prime
time for america our north america
correspondent peter bose in
is in los angeles and peter i imagine
this will have been watched by so many
people
and what's been the reaction there
you're right louise millions of
americans will have been watching this
and there's been a very
swift reaction and a lot of that
reaction focusing on the claims made
about
racism it's something that the american
newspapers are picking up on the los
angeles times
talks about the moment it says everyone
in the world have been waiting for
except it says perhaps
the press office at buckingham palace
and its headline focuses
on the concerns that megan and harry say
the palace raised about the skin
colour of their child we've heard from
serena williams friend of
meghan markle she says on twitter meghan
markle my
selfless friend lives her life and leads
by example with empathy
and compassion she teaches me every day
what it means to be truly
noble her words illustrate the pain and
cruelty
she has experienced also heard from
bernice king she's the youngest child of
civil rights leader martin luther king
jr she tweeted royalty
is not a shield from the devastation and
despair
of racism and i think what we're seeing
here is really quite a visceral
reaction to those claims that meghan
markle
made and perhaps quite the opposite to
the
the fairy tale image that some people in
america might have heard about what it
would be like for meghan markle
to murray into the royal family uh peter
thank you very much
and throughout the morning here on
breakfast we'll bring you analysis
reaction as well
uh to the interview throughout the
programme from royal commentators both
here also
in the us as well
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest
with bbc news